---
title: Diversity in Tech
---

When I read through the Diversity Primer materials, I thought about how I, as a female, may or may not find it hard to fit in at a male-dominated tech workplace. I've been fortunate in my life to have had the opportunity to participate, and even excel in, a variety of mostly-male activities. I've already had jobs in male-dominated fields (transportation logistics, for example). I'm not intimidated by these situations, and have had pretty good luck fitting into these groups. In fact, for reasons I can't even explain, I often prefer them to mostly-female groups. Personally, I'm more worried about being good enough at code, being able to "talk the talk," or fit into "geek" culture (as the <a href="https://www.codefellows.org/blog/issues-facing-tech-industry-diversity">Code Fellows article</a> put it). But this comes from a position of privilege. 

My experiences and opportunities were available to me because of the years of hard work by women that came before me. I certainly wouldn't say the fight is over -- I'd be lying if I said I had never experienced gender bias or even sexual harassment at work, but it's been fortuitously minimal. Tremendous progress has been made, though, and I'm reaping the benefits of it. The other type of privilege that makes it so I don't have to worry all that much about the particular culture of a future workplace is my European ancestry. Sadly, white privilege makes it so I don't even have to worry if my race and culture will be represented in a new workplace. It's pretty much a guarantee. 

Having worked places that were very diverse, and places that were not, I strongly prefer diversity. I'm really grateful that a new awareness is developing around the need for gender equity and especially diversity in technology. Minorities should be as well represented in any workplace as they are in society (I mean, duh, come on...). But companies don't always hire that way and, often, too many obstacles exist for marginalized groups to enter a new field. I'm glad that barriers are being addressed and progress -- even if it's meager at this point -- is being made. 

