---
title: Learning Hacks
---

We've been given a lot of pointers on how to organize ourselves, streamline our work and stay on task. I haven't incorporated all of them, but there are more techniques I'd like to try out and add to my arsenal of distraction-busters. 

One thing I've done for many years now, and continue to do, is listen to ambient music while I'm working. I really benefit from blocking out background chatter and noise, and just providing something formless and non-distracting for the rest of my brain to chew on (the restless extra parts that aren't actively working on an assignment). I especially like Brian Eno for this, but only his ambient work. His early pop records are way too catchy to code to. Save those for the car ride home. 

I find that I have to do a lot of extra stuff when I wake up in the morning and after I get back from class in order to keep myself comfortable and on-task throughout the day. I got rear-ended by someone driving <i>really</i> fast a while back and, as a result, I have a lot of neck problems, muscle spasms and headaches/migraines that I didn't used to have to deal with. If I'm not dilligent in doing a lot of specific stretches and exercises, the pain (and especially migraines...) gets out of control really quickly. At baseline it's distracting, but getting a full-blown migraine makes it impossible to be productive, so keeping myself feeling well has to be my top priority from day to day. It's time-consuming, but I don't have much of a choice. It's imperative for my participation in... life.

Something I've found to be incredibly effective in reducing stress (headaches, too!) and increasing focus and mental clarity is meditation. I've learned the transcendental meditation technique and practice it twice daily; twenty minutes in the morning and twenty minutes in the evening. I highly recommend some form of stress-reduction, especially meditation, for anyone going into the frustration-laden field of coding. It's a life-changer. Not sure if I could handle the stress of code school without it. No, I'm positive I couldn't. I'd have definitely flipped my lid by now.

Some of my classmates have really latched onto the Pomodoro timer, but at the pace I'm working at currently (slow!), I find it a bit too intrusive to stop every twenty miutes to commit to GitHub or take a break, or whatever. Twenty minutes seems to go by <i>really</i> quickly when I'm trying to apply a new and complicated concept. Once I get more of a proficiency in some of the things I'm learning, I could see that it would be really useful. Even now, it's nice to be reminded that twenty minutes have gone by without accomplishing something substantial, and that maybe it's time to ask for help.

A couple of things that I haven't looked into yet, but would like to try out are workflow applications and productivity apps. I don't think I'm terribly distracted by surfing and such (I don't even have Facebook or Twitter accounts), but I do get iMessages here and there, and when I get stumped (frequently!) it's almost automatic to go look at some other tab I have open, check my email, etc. It would be nice to have a productivity app just block those things out for periods of time, so I can't fall back to that when the work gets tough. As for workflow apps, I don't know much about those, but I'm a little intimidated by how much time they might take up. Obviously, to use something like that you're going to have to put a lot of info into it, and time feels, like, <i>so</i> precious right now. Deciding to use it on setting up a workflow for myself instead of just jumping into the work at hand is a hard decision to make. Even though I know it's better in the long run. Taking a few minutes to make myself a checklist on GitHub issues saved me a lot of time wondering what to do next on my most recent assignment.
