---
title: Weeks 7 and 8... ?
---

Rough couple of weeks. I've had it in the back of my mind since the beginning of this journey that I might not "have what it takes," for lack of a better phrase, to be a programmer. Or, to put it another way, I've questioned whether or not I would get to a level of comprehension of this material that I would be comfortable applying and interviewing for jobs where I would *actually* be creating or altering *actual* code (for applications that people *actually* use). At first, despite how badly things started off, I figured I'd better give it a while and see if things got better, but here I am on the downward slide of this program and I'm not feeling any better about my ability to do this sort of work. Less confident than ever, probably, because I have a bit more perspective on it. So I've decided I won't be looking for developer jobs after this. If this program were twice as long as it is and covered the same amount of material, maybe I could have done well enough to feel confident in my ability to use Ruby, JavaScript or CSS, but it's not, of course. I can't claim that I'm competent in these programs and I can't really imagine a workplace where it's okay that I'm not, or where it's okay that I just need like two or three times as much time to accomplish something than the average programmer requires. And god forbid I ever get asked to learn a new language. Switching from Ruby to JavaScript... well, I'm pretty sure I still don't know a damn thing about JavaScript.

I've never sucked so bad at anything before. Well, that's not true, I suppose. I sucked at basketball when I was a kid, so I quit playing. Really, I've never sucked so much at something that I didn't just go ahead and quit. Although, I often thought about quitting during the first month of class. But it's gotten a little late for that now, so I'll do my best to sharpen what meager skills I have and get through it. At least I didn't quit, I guess! I can't say that about anything else that was this stressful and I was this ill-suited for.

I would still like to find something "IT-related" and I have some ideas of what I could do (what I would like to do) that doesn't actually involve breaking anybody's code. Not sure if I can turn those ideas into reality, though. But I'm planning on applying for some things this week. If nothing comes of it, I suppose I could go back to my fabulously low-paying nonprofit job that perhaps I should not have been so eager to leave. C'est la vie... Nothing ventured, nothing gained. I'll keep telling myself that, anyway.